Sixth International Workshop on Serverless Computing (WoSC6) 2020

   Part of [1]ACM/IFIP International Middleware Conference, Dec 7-11,
   2020.

   The workshop will take place in TU Delft, Netherlands.

   Over the last four to five years, Serverless Computing (Serverless) has
   gained an enthusiastic following in industry as a compelling paradigm
   for the deployment of cloud applications, and is enabled by the recent
   shift of enterprise application architectures to containers and
   microservices. Many of the major cloud vendors have released serverless
   platforms, including Amazon Lambda, Google Cloud Functions, Microsoft
   Azure Functions, IBM Cloud Functions. Open source projects are gaining
   popularity in providing serverless computing as a service. In
   particular Kubernetes gained in popularity in enterprise and in
   academia. Several open source projects such as OpenFaaS and Knative aim
   to provide developers with serverless experience on top of Kubernetes
   by hiding low-level details of Kubernetes and add new capabilities such
   as supporting event-driven serverless cloud-native applications. This
   workshop brings together researchers and practitioners to discuss their
   experiences and thoughts on future directions of serverless research.

   Serverless architectures offer different tradeoffs in terms of control,
   cost, and flexibility compared to distributed applications built on an
   Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) substrate. For example, a serverless
   architecture requires developers to more carefully consider the
   resources used by their code (time to execute, memory used, etc.) when
   modularizing their applications. This is in contrast to concerns around
   latency, scalability, and elasticity, which is where significant
   development effort has traditionally been spent when building cloud
   services. In addition, tools and techniques to monitor and debug
   applications aren't applicable in serverless architectures, and new
   approaches are needed. As well, test and development pipelines may need
   to be adapted. Another decision that developers face is the
   appropriateness of the serverless ecosystem to their application
   requirements. A rich ecosystem of services built into the platform is
   typically easier to compose and would offer better performance.
   However, composing external services may be unavoidable, and in such
   cases, many of the benefits of serverless disappear, including
   performance and availability guarantees. This presents an important
   research challenge, and it is not clear how existing results and best
   practices, such as workflow composition research, can be applied to
   composition in a serverless environment.
   Authors are invited to submit research papers, experience papers,
   demonstrations, or position papers.

   The latest version of this CFP is available at
   [2]http://serverlesscomputing.org/wosc6/

Topics

   This workshop solicits papers from both academia and industry on the
   state of practice and state of the art in serverless computing. Topics
   of interest include but are not limited to:
     * Infrastructure and network optimizations for serverless
       applications
     * Debugging serverless applications
     * Programming models
     * Use cases, experiences
     * Benchmarks
     * Cost models, pricing models, and economics of serverless
     * DevOps
     * Other topics related to serverless computing

Important Dates

   Paper Submission: September 14, 2020
   Notification of Acceptance: September 21, 2019
   Final Camera-Ready Manuscript (Hard Deadline): October 10, 2019
   Author registration deadline: TBD
   Conference: December 7-11, 2020

Papers and Submissions

   Authors are invited to submit original, unpublished
   research/application papers that are not being considered in another
   forum.

   Submitted manuscripts should be structured as technical papers and may
   not exceed six (6) single-spaced double-column pages using ACM SIGPLAN
   style, which can found on the ACM template page. The page limit
   contains all the content, including bibliography, appendix, etc.

   Submitted papers must adhere to the formatting instructions of the ACM
   SIGPLAN style, which can found on the [3]ACM template page. The font
   size has to be set to 10pt.

   Note that submissions must be double-blind: authors' names must not
   appear, and authors must make a good faith attempt to anonymize their
   submissions.

   The Middleware conference organizers will provide companion proceedings
   including all workshop papers, which will be available in the ACM
   Digital Library. This is subject to the availability of their
   camera-ready papers by October 16, 2020.

   Authors should submit the manuscript in PDF format. All manuscripts
   will be reviewed and will be judged on correctness, originality,
   technical strength, rigour in analysis, quality of results, quality of
   presentation, and interest and relevance to the conference attendees.
   Papers conforming to the above guidelines can be submitted through the
   paper submission system powered by HotCRP
   ([4]https://wosc6.hotcrp.com/).

   All submitted manuscripts (following MIDDLEWARE conference requirements
   on formatting and page limits) will be peer-reviewed by at least 3
   program committee members. Accepted papers with confirmed presentation
   will appear in the conference proceedings as well as in the ACM Digital
   Library.

Workshop co-chairs

   Paul Castro, IBM Research
   Pedro Garcia Lopez, University Rovira i Virgili
   Vatche Ishakian, Bentley University
   Vinod Muthusamy, IBM Research
   Aleksander Slominski, IBM Research

Steering Committee

   Geoffrey Fox, Indiana University
   Dennis Gannon, Indiana University & Formerly Microsoft Research
   Arno Jacobsen, MSRG (Middleware Systems Research Group)

Program Committee

   Gul Agha, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
   Azer Bestavros, Boston University
   Flavio Esposito, Saint Louis University
   Rodrigo Fonseca, Brown University
   Ian Foster, University of Chicago and Argonne National Laboratory
   Geoffrey Fox, Indiana University
   Dennis Gannon, Indiana University & Formerly Microsoft Research
   Pedro Garcia Lopez, Universitat Rovira i Virgili (Spain)
   Tyler Harter, GSL, Microsoft
   Arno Jacobsen, MSRG (Middleware Systems Research Group)
   Wes Lloyd, University of Washington Tacoma
   Visnja Krizanovic, Josip Juraj Strossmayer University of Osijek
   Maciej Malawski, AGH University of Science and Technology, Poland
   Pietro Michiardi, Eurecom
   Lucas Nussbaum, LORIA, France
   Maciej Pawlik, Academic Computer Centre CYFRONET of the University of
   Science and Technology in Cracow
   Per Persson, Ericsson Research
   Peter Pietzuch, Imperial College
   Rodric Rabbah, Apache OpenWhisk
   Eric Rozner, University of Colorado Boulder
   Josef Spillner, Zurich University of Applied Sciences
   Rich Wolski, University of California, Santa Barbara

References

   1. http://2020.middleware-conference.org/
   2. http://serverlesscomputing.org/wosc6/
   3. https://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template
   4. https://wosc6.hotcrp.com/
