11th International Workshop on Serverless Computing (WoSC11) 2025

   Part of [1]ACM/IFIP Middleware 2025.

   WoSC11 will be hybrid this year with both virtual and on-location
   formats. Please note that while hybrid formats will be supported for
   workshops, the Middleware 2025 steering committee wants the main
   conference to be held in in-person only. Prospective attendees of the
   workshop should keep this in mind if they plan to attend both WoSC11
   and Middleware 2025.

   Over the last eleven years, Serverless Computing (Serverless) has
   gained an enthusiastic following in industry as a compelling paradigm
   for the deployment of cloud applications, and is enabled by the recent
   shift of enterprise application architectures to containers and
   micro-services. Many of the major cloud vendors have released
   serverless platforms, including Amazon Lambda, Google Cloud Functions,
   Microsoft Azure Functions, IBM Cloud Functions. Open source projects
   are gaining popularity in providing serverless computing as a service.

   Recently, Kubernetes gained popularity in enterprise and academia.
   Several open source projects, such as OpenFaaS and Knative, aim to
   provide developers with a serverless experience on top of Kubernetes by
   hiding low-level details. Auto-scalable multi-tenant Kubernetes
   deployments like Google Cloud Run or IBM Code Engine also overcome
   previous limitations of Serverless Functions like duration, networking,
   and higher granularity (more vCPUs).

   Serverless on the cloud is a mature research area with many conferences
   accepting papers on this topic. In the spirit of having this workshop
   serve as a venue for future and exploratory research directions, we
   will be evolving the workshop to include hybrid cloud environments, as
   well as edge and IoT devices. These next-gen computing architectures
   are becoming more common but have little support from serverless
   platforms and bring new challenges to old concerns such as resource
   optimization, scaling, cost, monitoring, and ease of use. The
   serverless experience becomes an essential topic for emerging topics
   such as DevOps and [2]Platform Engineering in industry and will be
   critical to the success of next-gen computing.

   Building on the recent advances in generative AI, including Large
   Language Models (LLMs) and other types of Foundations Models (FMs), the
   workshop also plans to explore the use of hybrid serverless platforms
   to fine-tune, serve, and manage the lifecycle of LLMs with a focus on
   aspects such as use cases, resource allocations, optimizations, and
   using AI to improve serverless experience.

   Emerging applications such as AI agents present interesting serverless
   workloads patterns. These agentic solutions are characterized by
   multiple LLM calls to process user requests and construct dynamic
   plans, unpredictable orchestrations of API calls, and invocations of
   deterministic code and AI models to reflect on API responses and make
   progress towards a goal. They may be triggered by events, run quickly
   for a few seconds or autonomously for days, and communicate with other
   agents. These applications resurface known serverless challenges in a
   new setting, including cold start, state management, and resource
   allocation. They also raise new challenges such as mixed GPU and CPU
   workloads, applications with stochastic plans, bursty long running
   processes, inter-process communication, and integrations with agentic
   programming models such as LangGraph and Crew AI.

   This workshop brings together researchers and practitioners to discuss
   their experiences and thoughts on future directions of serverless
   research.

   As this year the workshop is hybrid and we are looking not only for
   research papers, experience papers, demonstrations, or position papers
   but also for live presentations of ongoing work, demonstrations, and
   anything else that may be interesting to workshop audience.

   The latest version of this CFP is available at
   [3]http://serverlesscomputing.org/wosc11/

Topics

   This workshop solicits papers from both academia and industry on the
   state of practice and state of the art in serverless computing. Topics
   of interest include but are not limited to:
     * Infrastructure and network optimizations for serverless
       applications
     * Multi-cloud and hybrid cloud for serverless and next-gen computing
       like Edge, Fog, IoT, etc.
     * Elastic AI platforms and pay-as-you-go for GPUs with different cost
       metrics.
     * Using AI assist and generative LLMs such as ChatGPT for building,
       running, and maintaining serverless-like applications.
     * Supporting AI agents and with serverless approaches in agentic
       platforms
     * Supporting Model Context Protocol (MCP) and using it in
       serverless-like applications
     * Supporting customization and running user provided AI models any
       place: Cloud, Edge,Fog, IoT, etc.
     * Developer experience as we transition from “traditional” serverless
       and FaaS
     * Serverless data management for AI, vector and graph databases
       applied to serverless experience
     * Serverless and next-gen computing in Industry such as Platform
       Engineering and Internal Developer Platforms and other areas
     * Next-gen data platform and how to use it with serverless-like
       approaches
     * Low-code and no-code - new programming abstractions
     * Developer productivity: from local code to observability and
       maintenance
     * Debugging serverless applications
     * Programming models
     * Use cases, experiences
     * Benchmarks
     * Cost models, pricing models, and economics of serverless
     * DevOps
     * Confidential computing
     * Sustainable computing
     * Granular computing
     * Super-lightweight containers Web Assembly
     * Swarm intelligence
     * Other topics related to serverless computing

Important Dates

   Paper Submission: September 24, 2025 (AOE)
   Notification of Acceptance: October 19, 2025
   Final Camera-Ready Manuscript (Hard Deadline): October 27, 2025
   Non-paper submissions (demos and other proposals): November 10, 2024
   Author registration deadline: TBD
   Conference: December 15-19, 2025

Papers and Submissions

Papers submissions

   Authors are invited to submit original, unpublished
   research/application papers that are not being considered in another
   forum.

   Submitted manuscripts should be structured as technical papers and may
   not exceed six (6) single-spaced double-column pages using ACM SIGPLAN
   style, which can be found on the ACM template page. The page limit
   contains all the content, including bibliography, appendix, etc.

   Note that submissions must be doubly anonymous - authors’ names must
   not appear on the manuscript, and authors must make a good-faith
   attempt to anonymize their submissions.

   Submitted papers must adhere to the formatting instructions of the
   standard ACM format style, which can be found on the [4]ACM template
   page. The font size has to be set to 9pt.

   The Middleware conference organizers will provide companion proceedings
   including all workshop papers, which will be available in the ACM
   Digital Library. This is subject to the availability of their
   camera-ready papers by October 26, 2025.

   Authors should submit the manuscript in PDF format. All manuscripts
   will be reviewed and will be judged on correctness, originality,
   technical strength, rigour in analysis, quality of results, quality of
   presentation, and interest and relevance to the conference attendees.
   Papers conforming to the above guidelines can be submitted through the
   paper submission system powered by HotCRP
   ([5]https://wosc2025.hotcrp.com/).

   All submitted manuscripts (following MIDDLEWARE conference requirements
   on formatting and page limits) will be peer-reviewed by at least 3
   program committee members. Accepted papers with confirmed presentation
   will appear in the conference proceedings as well as in the ACM Digital
   Library.

   Note that at least one author of each accepted workshop paper must hold
   a full pre-conference registration.

   Please ensure that you and your co-authors obtain an ORCID ID, so you
   can complete the publishing process for your accepted paper. ACM has
   been involved in ORCID from the start and we have recently made a
   commitment to collect ORCID IDs from all of our published authors
   ([6]https://authors.acm.org/author-resources/orcid-faqs). The
   collection process has started and will roll out as a requirement
   throughout 2022. We are committed to improve author discoverability,
   ensure proper attribution and contribute to ongoing community efforts
   around name normalization; your ORCID ID will help in these efforts.

Anonymity Requirements for Doubly-Anonymous Reviewing

   Every research paper submitted to ACM Middleware 2025 will undergo a
   ''doubly-anonymous'' reviewing process: in addition to maintaining the
   anonymity of the reviewers of the papers, the PC members and reviewers
   will not know the identity of the authors. To ensure the anonymity of
   authorship, authors must at least do the following:
    1. Authors' names and affiliations must not appear on the title page
       or elsewhere in the paper.
    2. Funding sources must not be acknowledged anywhere in the paper
       under review; these can be added to accepted papers upon submission
       of the camera-ready manuscript.
    3. Non-anonymized links to the authors’ online content must be
       removed.
    4. Research group members, or other colleagues or collaborators, must
       not be acknowledged anywhere in the paper.
    5. The paper’s file name must not identify the authors of the paper.

   Authors should also use care in referring to related past work. The
   solution is to reference past work in the third person (in the same way
   that one would reference work by anyone else). This allows you to set
   the context for your submission while at the same time preserving
   anonymity.

   Despite the anonymity requirements, authors should still include all
   relevant work, including their own; omitting them could reveal the
   author's identity by negation. However, self-references should be
   limited to the essential ones, and extended versions of the submitted
   paper (e.g., technical reports or URLs for downloadable versions) must
   not be referenced. The goal is to preserve anonymity while allowing the
   reader to grasp the context of the submitted paper fully. It is the
   responsibility of authors to do their very best to preserve anonymity.
   Papers that do not follow the guidelines or potentially reveal the
   author's identity are subject to immediate rejection.

Other submissions

   Authors are invited to submit proposals for demos and other
   presentations that are not papers.

   Proposals must be submitted as short abstracts (not longer than one
   page) in PDF format using the paper submission system HotCRP
   ([7]https://wosc2025.hotcrp.com/).

   Accepted presentations will not be part of the conference proceedings
   but will be part of the workshop agenda with dedicated time for live
   presentation (with video backup), questions etc.

Workshop co-chairs

   Paul Castro, IBM Research
   Pedro García López, University Rovira i Virgili
   Vatche Ishakian, IBM Research
   Vinod Muthusamy, IBM Research
   Aleksander Slominski, IBM Research

Steering Committee

   Geoffrey Fox, Indiana University
   Dennis Gannon, Indiana University & Formerly Microsoft Research
   Arno Jacobsen, MSRG (Middleware Systems Research Group)

Program Committee (tentative)

   Cristina Abad, Escuela Superior Politécnica del Litoral (Ecuador)
   Gul Agha, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
   Marc Sánchez Artigas, Universitat Rovira i Virgili
   Azer Bestavros, Boston University
   Tyler R. Caraza-Harter, University of Wisconsin-Madison
   Rodrigo Fonseca, Microsoft
   Ian Foster, University of Chicago and Argonne National Laboratory
   Geoffrey Fox, Indiana University
   Dennis Gannon, Indiana University & Formerly Microsoft Research
   Pedro Garcia Lopez, Universitat Rovira i Virgili (Spain)
   Volker Hilt, Bell Labs (Nokia)
   Alexandru Iosup, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam
   Arno Jacobsen, MSRG (Middleware Systems Research Group)
   Ali Kanso, Microsoft
   Višnja Križanović, Josip Juraj Strossmayer University of Osijek
   Samuel Kounev, University of Wuerzburg
   Kyungyong Lee, Kookmin University
   Wes Lloyd, University of Washington Tacoma
   Maciej Malawski, AGH University of Science and Technology, Poland
   Lucas Nussbaum, LORIA, France
   Maciej Pawlik, Academic Computer Centre CYFRONET of the University of
   Science and Technology in Cracow
   Per Persson, Ericsson Research
   Peter Pietzuch, Imperial College
   Rodric Rabbah, Nimbella and Apache OpenWhisk
   Eric Rozner, University of Colorado Boulder
   Josef Spillner, Zurich University of Applied Sciences
   Rich Wolski, University of California, Santa Barbara

References

   1. https://middleware-conf.github.io/2025/
   2. https://platformengineering.org/
   3. http://serverlesscomputing.org/wosc11/
   4. https://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template
   5. https://wosc2025.hotcrp.com/
   6. https://authors.acm.org/author-resources/orcid-faqs
   7. https://wosc2025.hotcrp.com/
