CFP: Fifth International Workshop on Serverless Computing (WoSC) 2019
Part of 39th IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS 2019)
The workshop will take place in Dallas, Texas, USA.

Over the last four to five years, Serverless Computing (Serverless) has
gained an enthusiastic following in industry as a compelling paradigm
for the deployment of cloud applications, and is enabled by the recent
shift of enterprise application architectures to containers and
micro-services. Many of the major cloud vendors, have released
serverless platforms, including Amazon Lambda, Google Cloud Functions,
Microsoft Azure Functions, IBM Cloud Functions. There is, however,
little attention from the research community. This workshop brings
together researchers and practitioners to discuss their experiences and
thoughts on future directions.

Serverless architectures offer different tradeoffs in terms of control,
cost, and flexibility. For example, this requires developers to more
carefully consider the resources used by their code (time to execute,
memory used, etc.) when modularizing their applications. This is in
contrast to concerns around latency, scalability, and elasticity, which
is where significant development effort has traditionally been spent
when building cloud services. In addition, tools and techniques to
monitor and debug applications aren't applicable in serverless
architectures, and new approaches are needed. As well, test and
development pipelines may need to be adapted. Another decision that
developers face are the appropriateness of the serverless ecosystem to
their application requirements. A rich ecosystem of services built into
the platform is typically easier to compose and would offer better
performance. However, composing external services may be unavoidable,
and in such cases, many of the benefits of serverless disappear,
including performance and availability guarantees. This presents an
important research challenge, and it is not clear how existing results
and best practices, such as workflow composition research, can be
applied to composition in a serverless environment.
Authors are invited to submit research papers, experience papers,
demonstrations, or position papers.

The latest version of this CFP is available at 
http://serverlesscomputing.org/wosc5/  

Topics

   This workshop solicits papers from both academia and industry on the
   state of practice and state of the art in serverless computing. Topics
   of interest include but are not limited to:
     * Infrastructure and network optimizations for serverless
       applications
     * Debugging serverless applications
     * Programming models
     * Use cases, experiences
     * Benchmarks
     * Cost models, pricing models, and economics of serverless
     * DevOps
     * Other topics related to serverless computing

Important Dates

   Paper Submission: March 25, 2019
   Notification of Acceptance: April 25, 2019
   Final Camera-Ready Manuscript: May 1, 2019
   Author registration deadline: TBD
   Conference: July 7-10, 2019

Papers and Submissions

   Authors are invited to submit original, unpublished
   research/application papers that are not being considered in another
   forum.

   Submitted manuscripts should be structured as technical papers and may
   not exceed six (6) single-spaced double-column pages using 10-point
   size font on 8.5x11 inch pages (IEEE conference style ), including
   figures, tables, and references.
   https://www.ieee.org/conferences/publishing/templates.html

   Authors should submit the manuscript in PDF format. All manuscripts
   will be reviewed and will be judged on correctness, originality,
   technical strength, rigour in analysis, quality of results, quality of
   presentation, and interest and relevance to the conference attendees.
   Papers conforming to the above guidelines can be submitted through the
   paper submission system
   https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=icdcs2019 select "Workshop
   on Serverless Computing" Track after clicking New Submission (top right
   button in toolbar).

   All submitted manuscripts will be peer-reviewed by at least 3 program
   committee members. Accepted papers (from both tracks and workshops)
   with confirmed presentation will appear in the conference proceedings
   published by the IEEE Computer Society Press and will be made available
   online through the IEEE Digital Library, as well as through the ACM
   Digital Library.

Review policy

   IEEE Policy and professional ethics require that referees treat the
   contents of papers under review as privileged information not to be
   disclosed to others before publication. It is expected that no one with
   access to a paper under review will make any inappropriate use of the
   special knowledge, which that access provides. Contents of abstracts
   submitted to conference program committees should be regarded as
   privileged as well, and handled in the same manner. The Conference
   Publications Chair shall ensure that referees adhere to this practice.

   Organizers of IEEE conferences are expected to provide an appropriate
   forum for the oral presentation and discussion of all accepted papers.
   An author, in offering a paper for presentation at an IEEE conference,
   or accepting an invitation to present a paper, is expected to be
   present at the meeting to deliver the paper. In the event that
   circumstances unknown at the time of submission of a paper preclude its
   presentation by an author, the program chair should be informed on
   time, and appropriate substitute arrangements should be made. In some
   cases it may help reduce no-shows for the Conference to require advance
   registration together with the submission of the final manuscript.

Workshop co-chairs

   Paul Castro, IBM Research
   Vatche Ishakian, Bentley University
   Vinod Muthusamy, IBM Research
   Aleksander Slominski, IBM Research

Steering Committee (tentative)

   Roger Barga, Amazon Web Services
   Geoffrey Fox, Indiana University
   Dennis Gannon, Indiana University & Formerly Microsoft Research
   Arno Jacobsen, MSRG (Middleware Systems Research Group)

Program Committee (tentative)

   Gul Agha, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
   Azer Bestavros, Boston University
   Flavio Esposito, Saint Louis University
   Rodrigo Fonseca, Brown University
   Ian Foster, University of Chicago and Argonne National Laboratory
   Geoffrey Fox, Indiana University
   Dennis Gannon, Indiana University & Formerly Microsoft Research
   Pedro Garcia Lopez, Universitat Rovira i Virgili (Spain)
   Arno Jacobsen, MSRG (Middleware Systems Research Group)
   Tyler Harter, GSL, Microsoft
   Visnja Krizanovic, Josip Juraj Strossmayer University of Osijek
   Maciej Malawski, AGH University of Science and Technology, Poland
   Pietro Michiardi, Eurecom
   Lucas Nussbaum, LORIA, France
   Eric Rozner, University of Colorado Boulder
   Josef Spillner, Zurich University of Applied Sciences
   Rich Wolski, University of California, Santa Barbara

